# Context 
All of the recordings have been taken while the `cyclictest` command was executing. The goal is to identify a pattern of behaviour of the task inside the kernel. This will be useful to identify the task in the presence of the noise generated by an hmi in order to identify *if a RT task is affected by this noise, thus causing it do miss the deadlines.*

```bash
cyclictest -t 1 -a 1 -p 99 -i 2000000 -q
```
Options :
- `-t 1`: number of spawned threads
- `-a 1`: affinity, core to pin the process to
- `-i 2000000` : number o microseconds, so 2 seconds
- `-q`: quiet option for cli print

> [!NOTE]
> Despite using the `-t 1` option, the `cyclictest` command generates **two threads**. Only the second thread (the one with the higher PID) performs the 2-second `nanosleep` wait.
> 
> You can verify this behaviour by running : `strace -p <thread_pid>`



> [!CAUTION]
> ### **Handling Dropped Events**
> In full kernel traces, depending on the board's available memory, you may encounter timestamp gaps marked as `EVENTS_DROPPED`.
> 
> This indicates that the kernel buffer is filling up faster than `trace-cmd` can read and save data to the disk. To resolve this, you must **increase the buffer size**.
> 
> `trace-cmd` provides the `-b` option to specify the buffer size. **Warning:** Do not set this value too high, as the maximum capacity depends on the specific hardware. A recommended starting point is `-b 100000` and try to increase it depending on the board's memory.


## Trace recording and analysis

The traces have been recorder via the `trace-cmd` command which is a front-end for `ftrace`. It also provides  the option to choose the tracer without having to write to `/sys/kernel/debug/tracing/current_tracer`

```bash
trace-cmd record <tracer_name>
```

Traces were recorded using the `function_graph`, `irqsoff` and `wakeup_rt` tracers without any specification on the depth of the recording, which means that we are recording at the maximum depth that's happening on the kernel. This generates a `trace.dat` file which in order to be of any use needs to be translated to a plaintext file via the following command:

```bash
trace-cmd report > <filename>
```


For more details on the specific traces(commands run to generate them and results), consult the trace files themeselves.

> [!TIP]
> You may see two similar trace files for each of traces. This is because we are providing the full trace and also an extraction of parts which we use to draw our conclusions




